Strings:
String are immutable in java..i.e they are constant.Any modifiction to the String leads new object cretions.

two ways to create String objects using String literal and using new object.
Creating String using String literal always creates two objects one in heap area another in String constnt pool.

String Buffer is an alternative of String.It is mutable with growable length where as String is fixed length.
String Builder also lternative of String but it is mutable.

String Buffer vs String Builder.
Both are mutble.String Buffer is synchronized i.e Thred safe where as String Builder is not.
Thats why String Builder is most efficient than String Buffer.

String has concat method and String Buffer and String Builder has append method.

-->How to create immutable objects in java
All wrapper classes and String are immutble in java.We can create immutable class by using final key word.
To make any class immutable specify that class as final and all the variable in that class as final variable.

--->String Constant Pool
String constnt pool is a memory location in heap area.It stores String literals.Heap area always store run time objects.
When new variable is creted and assign  value java checks if the same value exists in string pool..If exists it returns that memory location else crete new object reference.
String pools saves lots of space for javaruntime.

-->intern() method.
intern method is used to return String from memory if is creted using new keyword.it's  canonicl representtion of string.
It Creates exact copy of heap string Object in string pool.

Is String a keyword in java?
No. String is not a keyword in java. String is a final class in java.lang package which is used to represent the set of characters in java

Which is the final class in these three classes – String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
All three are final.

do you have any idea why strings have been made immutable in java?
a) Immutable strings increase security. As they can’t be modified once they are created, so we can use them to store sensitive data like username, password etc.
b) Immutable strings are thread safe. So, we can use them in a multi threaded code without synchronization.
c) String objects are used in class loading. If strings are mutable, it is possible that wrong class is being loaded as mutable objects are modifiable.
